run these four programs:

count_gains_losses.py
distributions_by_eightmer.py
distribution_sums.py
counts_by_branch.py

count_gains_losses.py uses the output dictionary from remove_gaps.py to 
count how many times every 8mer within every species is present, gained, 
and lost within every gene. The dictionary is populated by genes, which 
are each a dictionary of species, which are each a dictionary of 
eightmers, each of which is a 3 number summary list: number of times the 
eightmer is present in that species in that gene, number of times the 
eightmer is gained in that species in that gene, and number of times the 
eightmer is lost in that species in that gene. Because such a dictionary 
would be much larger than the available memory, when calculated across the 
entire list of protein coding genes, multiple dictionaries of 100 genes 
each are created.

distributions_by_eightmer.py counts the number of times every 3 number 
summary occurred across genes. Because this is just a count of 3 number 
summaries that is added up across all genes, all output dictionaries of 
count_gain_losses.py can be stored in a single file. The output is a 
dictionary of eightmers, each of which has a dictionary of species, each 
of which has dictionary of all 3 number summaries and a count of how many 
genes had each 3 number summary.

distribution_sums.py has two outputs. The first is a sum of total sites, 
gains, and losses within each species for each eightmer. The second is a 
sum of total sites, gains and losses summed across species for each 
eightmer.

counts_by_branch.py operates on the first output of distribution_sums.py
and adds gains and losses across all eightmers within each species. The
result is a total number of gains and total number of losses for each
branch.
